Basic Helm Commands -
Helm is the app store for Kubernetes. It simplifies installing and managing complex applications using pre-packaged "charts" - think of it like apt-get for Kubernetes.
1. helm help Displays help for the Helm CLI or a specific command. Example: helm help
2. helm version Shows the Helm client and server version. Example: helm version
3. helm repo add Adds a new chart repository. Example: helm repo add stable https://charts.helm.sh/stable
4. helm repo update Updates all Helm chart repositories to the latest version. Example: helm repo update
5. helm repo list Lists all the repositories added to Helm. Example: helm repo list
6. helm search hub Searches for charts on Helm Hub. Example: helm search hub nginx
7. helm search repo Searches for charts in the repositories. Example: helm search repo stable/nginx
8. helm show chart Displays information about a chart, including metadata and dependencies. Example: helm show chart stable/nginx

Installing and Upgrading Charts
9. helm install Installs a chart into a Kubernetes cluster. Example: helm install my-release stable/nginx
10. helm upgrade Upgrades an existing release with a new version of the chart. Example: helm upgrade my-release stable/nginx
11. helm upgrade --install Installs a chart if it isn’t installed or upgrades it if it exists. Example: helm upgrade --install my-release stable/nginx
12. helm uninstall Uninstalls a release. Example: helm uninstall my-release
13. helm list Lists all the releases installed on the Kubernetes cluster. Example: helm list
14. helm status Displays the status of a release. Example: helm status my-release

Working with Helm Charts
15. helm create Creates a new Helm chart in a specified directory. Example: helm create my-chart
16. helm lint Lints a chart to check for common errors. Example: helm lint ./my-chart
17. helm package Packages a chart into a .tgz file. Example: helm package ./my-chart
18. helm template Renders the Kubernetes YAML files from a chart without installing it. Example: helm template my-release ./my-chart
19. helm dependency update Updates the dependencies in the Chart.yaml file. Example: helm dependency update ./my-chart

Advanced Helm Commands
20. helm rollback Rolls back a release to a previous version. Example: helm rollback my-release 1
21. helm history Displays the history of a release. Example: helm history my-release
22. helm get all Gets all information (including values and templates) for a release. Example: helm get all my-release
23. helm get values Displays the values used in a release. Example: helm get values my-release
24. helm test Runs tests defined in a chart. Example: helm test my-release

Helm Chart Repositories
25. helm repo remove Removes a chart repository. Example: helm repo remove stable
26. helm repo update Updates the local cache of chart repositories. Example: helm repo update
27. helm repo index Creates or updates the index file for a chart repository. Example: helm repo index ./charts

Helm Values and Customization
28. helm install --values Installs a chart with custom values. Example: helm install my-release stable/nginx --values values.yaml
29. helm upgrade --values Upgrades a release with custom values. Example: helm upgrade my-release stable/nginx --values values.yaml
30. helm install --set Installs a chart with a custom value set directly in the command. Example: helm install my-release stable/nginx --set replicaCount=3
31. helm upgrade --set Upgrades a release with a custom value set. Example: helm upgrade my-release stable/nginx --set replicaCount=5
32. helm uninstall --purge Removes a release and deletes associated resources, including the release history. Example: helm uninstall my-release --purge

Helm Template and Debugging
33. helm template --debug Renders Kubernetes manifests and includes debug output. Example: helm template my-release ./my-chart --debug
34. helm install --dry-run Simulates the installation process to show what will happen without actually installing. Example: helm install my-release stable/nginx --dry-run
35. helm upgrade --dry-run Simulates an upgrade process without actually applying it. Example: helm upgrade my-release stable/nginx --dry-run

Helm and Kubernetes Integration
36. helm list --namespace Lists releases in a specific Kubernetes namespace. Example: helm list --namespace kube-system
37. helm uninstall --namespace Uninstalls a release from a specific namespace. Example: helm uninstall my-release --namespace kube-system
38. helm install --namespace Installs a chart into a specific namespace. Example: helm install my-release stable/nginx --namespace mynamespace
39. helm upgrade --namespace Upgrades a release in a specific namespace. Example: helm upgrade my-release stable/nginx --namespace mynamespace

Helm Chart Development
40. helm package --sign Packages a chart and signs it using a GPG key. Example: helm package ./my-chart --sign --key my-key-id
41. helm create --starter Creates a new Helm chart based on a starter template.
Example: helm create --starter https://github.com/helm/charts.git
42. helm push Pushes a chart to a Helm chart repository. Example: helm push ./my-chart my-repo

Helm with Kubernetes CLI
43. helm list -n Lists releases in a specific Kubernetes namespace. Example: helm list -n kube-system
44. helm install --kube-context Installs a chart to a Kubernetes cluster defined in a specific kubeconfig context. Example: helm install my-release stable/nginx --kube-context my-cluster
45. helm upgrade --kube-context Upgrades a release in a specific Kubernetes context. Example: helm upgrade my-release stable/nginx --kube-context my-cluster

Helm Chart Dependencies
46. helm dependency build Builds dependencies for a Helm chart. Example: helm dependency build ./my-chart
47. helm dependency list Lists all dependencies for a chart. Example: helm dependency list ./my-chart
Helm History and Rollbacks
48. helm rollback --recreate-pods Rolls back to a previous version and recreates pods. Example: helm rollback my-release 2 --recreate-pods
49. helm history --max Limits the number of versions shown in the release history. Example: helm history my-release --max 5
