Basic Kubernetes Commands -
Kubernetes is the conductor of your container orchestra. It automates deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications across server clusters.
1. kubectl version Displays the Kubernetes client and server version. Example: kubectl version --short
2. kubectl cluster-info Shows information about the Kubernetes cluster. Example: kubectl cluster-info
3. kubectl get nodes Lists all nodes in the cluster. Example: kubectl get nodes
4. kubectl get pods Lists all pods in the default namespace. Example: kubectl get pods
5. kubectl get services Lists all services in the default namespace. Example: kubectl get services
6. kubectl get namespaces Lists all namespaces in the cluster. Example: kubectl get namespaces
7. kubectl describe pod Shows detailed information about a specific pod. Example: kubectl describe pod pod-name
8. kubectl logs Displays logs for a specific pod. Example: kubectl logs pod-name
9. kubectl create namespace Creates a new namespace. Example: kubectl create namespace my-namespace
10. kubectl delete pod Deletes a specific pod. Example: kubectl delete pod pod-name

Intermediate Kubernetes Commands
11. kubectl apply Applies changes defined in a YAML file. Example: kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml
12. kubectl delete Deletes resources defined in a YAML file. Example: kubectl delete -f deployment.yaml
13. kubectl scale Scales a deployment to the desired number of replicas. Example: kubectl scale deployment my-deployment --replicas=3
14. kubectl expose Exposes a pod or deployment as a service. Example: kubectl expose deployment my-deployment --type=LoadBalancer --port=80
15. kubectl exec Executes a command in a running pod. Example: kubectl exec -it pod-name -- /bin/bash
16. kubectl port-forward Forwards a local port to a port in a pod. Example: kubectl port-forward pod-name 8080:80
17. kubectl get configmaps Lists all ConfigMaps in the namespace. Example: kubectl get configmaps
18. kubectl get secrets Lists all Secrets in the namespace. Example: kubectl get secrets
19. kubectl edit Edits a resource definition directly in the editor. Example: kubectl edit deployment my-deployment
20. kubectl rollout status Displays the status of a deployment rollout. Example: kubectl rollout status deployment/my-deployment

Advanced Kubernetes Commands
21. kubectl rollout undo Rolls back a deployment to a previous revision. Example: kubectl rollout undo deployment/my-deployment
22. kubectl top nodes Shows resource usage for nodes. Example: kubectl top nodes
23. kubectl top pods Displays resource usage for pods. Example: kubectl top pods
24. kubectl cordon Marks a node as unschedulable. Example: kubectl cordon node-name
25. kubectl uncordon Marks a node as schedulable. Example: kubectl uncordon node-name
26. kubectl drain Safely evicts all pods from a node. Example: kubectl drain node-name --ignore-daemonsets
27. kubectl taint Adds a taint to a node to control pod placement. Example: kubectl taint nodes node-name key=value:NoSchedule
28. kubectl get events Lists all events in the cluster. Example: kubectl get events
29. kubectl apply -k Applies resources from a kustomization directory. Example: kubectl apply -k ./kustomization-dir/
30. kubectl config view Displays the kubeconfig file. Example: kubectl config view
31. kubectl config use-context Switches the active context in kubeconfig. Example: kubectl config use-context my-cluster
32. kubectl debug Creates a debugging session for a pod. Example: kubectl debug pod-name
33. kubectl delete namespace Deletes a namespace and its resources. Example: kubectl delete namespace my-namespace
34. kubectl patch Updates a resource using a patch. Example: kubectl patch deployment my-deployment -p '{"spec": {"replicas": 2}}'
35. kubectl rollout history Shows the rollout history of a deployment. Example: kubectl rollout history deployment my-deployment
36. kubectl autoscale Automatically scales a deployment based on resource usage. Example: kubectl autoscale deployment my-deployment --cpu-percent=50 --min=1 --max=10
37. kubectl label Adds or modifies a label on a resource. Example: kubectl label pod pod-name environment=production
38. kubectl annotate Adds or modifies an annotation on a resource. Example: kubectl annotate pod pod-name description="My app pod"
39. kubectl delete pv Deletes a PersistentVolume (PV). Example: kubectl delete pv my-pv
40. kubectl get ingress Lists all Ingress resources in the namespace. Example: kubectl get ingress
41. kubectl create configmap Creates a ConfigMap from a file or literal values. Example: kubectl create configmap my-config --from-literal=key1=value1
42. kubectl create secret Creates a Secret from a file or literal values. Example: kubectl create secret generic my-secret --from-literal=password=myPassword
43. kubectl api-resources Lists all available API resources in the cluster. Example: kubectl api-resources
44. kubectl api-versions Lists all API versions supported by the cluster. Example: kubectl api-versions
45. kubectl get crds Lists all CustomResourceDefinitions (CRDs). Example: kubectl get crds
